Coming all the way from
Cupertino this afternoon,
to entertain you,
please welcome the dream team,
Stefan Reich and Han-Ming Ong.
Hello and welcome to session
605 WebObjects and J2EE.
I think there's two main types of
developers in the audience today.
Number one, the traditional WebObjects
developer who is anxious to
see what's going on with J2EE,
how does it affect WebObjects.
And the second type,
hopefully the pure J2EE developer
who wants to see what support we
have in Macro S10 server for J2EE,
what we ship, what it looks like.
Thank you.
Good.
So I hope you're going to answer
all of these questions and switch
a few slides to our roadmap.
So I'm going to go over
all of the new features,
be they in the Mac OS and
server support for J2EE or the
new features in WebObjects.
Then I'm going to introduce
the J2EE components that are
part of our J2EE strategy.
I'm going to go over
the development tools,
especially the WebObjects
development tools for J2EE.
And finally, I'm going to introduce the
specific WebObjects features
for our J2EE integration story.
Okay, so this is the feature set that
we have been working on so far.
We have runtime support for J2EE 1.3,
namely the JBoss container
that was announced in the
Mac OS X server technical overview.
We have a graphical J2EE deployment
tool that helps configuring
enterprise applications,
EJB modules, and web modules.
We have a monitoring and
configuration tool that helps
you see and watch the load,
watch the resources in your container,
and also help optimize your container
setup for speed and maintainability.
We have written an admin
plugin for the server admin.
We have a web application in
Mac OS X server that makes it
very easy to control the lifecycle
of the application server with
watchdog integration and so on.
In addition to that,
we have end templates prepared
for pure J2EE development,
namely for the EJB module,
the web module,
and also the enterprise application.
In addition to the pure
compilation of J2EE project,
we have added X-Docklet support
that helps you maintain most
of the deployment descriptors,
all of the artifact classes
in the EJB specification as,
for example, local interfaces,
remote interfaces, home interfaces,
and so on.
We have taken these end projects
and integrated them with Xcode.
So we have both projects that we can
use in Xcode and we have templates
for additional files such as JSPs,
servlets, message driven beans and so on.
And last but not least,
we have improved the WebObjects core
container to play very well in a
J2EE environment and to be completely
configurable inside a J2EE container
with J2EE development tools.
So that was quick.
Let's go on.
And I'm going to explain our story,
our J2EE story.
So first of all, the question,
especially for the WebObjects people,
would be why?
Why WebObjects and why
WebObjects with J2EE?
So if you have been at
the Java 1 conference,
basically the message
was Java is everywhere.
And the second part of the message
is J2EE is almost everywhere.
So in fact,
we had a lot of customer requests
coming in who wanted to have J2EE 1.3
support on the Mac OS X server platform.
And this is one of the
reasons why we included it.
The second reason, again,
is more for our WebObjects folks
who have been facing challenges
getting their WebObjects applications
deployed in customer environments,
in companies.
So we have a lot of companies
who basically only have
a J2EE-based middleware.
And this is where our
integration support comes in.
And basically,
our new support helps you sell
your WebObjects application and
deploy your WebObjects application
even on a J2EE environment.
So I think that's enough of the why.
It now comes to how.
The J2EE container that
we ship is called JBoss.
It is really the open source container,
the open source J2EE container out there.
And it has the largest community,
both in terms of developer
and in terms of active users.
When you go to the website, jboss.org,
you will see that they feature over 2
million downloads for the last year.
They have 1.5 million
downloads this year alone.
And you can also have a look at the
major companies that are out there
that are deploying their applications,
their J2EEs.
And you can also have a look at the major
companies that are out there that are
deploying their J2EE software on JBoss.
So it's a very interesting site.
So we have not only taken the CVS,
the CVS source space,
compiled it and put it on to,
on the Mac OS X server.
[Transcript missing]
So here's another few points
for our customization.
We have identified the three most
important use cases for JBoss,
namely development,
deployment on a standalone machine,
and also deployment in
a cluster environment.
So for the develop environment,
we have a very quick turnaround time.
So as you might know,
JBoss features something
called auto deploy,
where the container scans
the directory for updates,
for removal of packages, and so on.
And this is one of the
values that we changed.
It picks up changes immediately.
We have advanced-- we have the logging
levels adjusted for you to really have
a look at what's going on behind the
scenes and to identify possible problems
very early in the deployment process.
The deploy-- the two
deploy configurations,
deploy standalone and deploy cluster,
of course, are optimized for
performance and scalability.
So we have set, for example,
the number of concurrent
connections very high.
We have made that the Tomcat
logging levels are low in
order to reduce I/O and so on.
The third configuration,
the deploy cluster configuration,
enables you to take a bunch of machines,
maybe an XServe cluster or something,
and deploy your website on those
many machines that you have.
That means you have high availability,
you have load balancing,
and you also have HTTP session
clustering turned on by default.
In general,
we have taken care of optimizing
the JBoss source base and also
optimizing the configuration
settings for spec compliance.
Many of the parameters that you can set
in the JBoss configuration files allow
you to trade spec compliance for speed,
but we have made sure that spec
compliance is the most important setting
in all of the three configurations.
Lastly, we have made sure that JBoss
itself has optimal JDK 1.4 support.
There are many features that are
optional or that you have to explicitly
enable on a JDK 1.4 environment,
and we have taken care of that because
our standard environment is JDK 1.4,
and especially for JDBC 3 for generating
primary keys on the fly by the database,
this is a very important feature.
And now let's talk about the integration
of JBoss with Macro SN Server.
So for one thing, for people who already
know our Tomcat bundling,
we have made sure that the JBoss bundling
is done in our /library directory.
We pull out all of the log files,
and the log files will be written
into library logs to send that
location on Macro SN Server.
We have pulled out temporary
directories and so on.
So it's very tied in into the
traditional system layout,
file system layout in Macro S10.
And you will find whatever you want,
whatever you're looking
for in the standard places.
Important also is you might have seen
the tool in the technical overview of
Mac OS and server that allows you to
configure Mail and Apache and so on.
And we have written a plugin that
also allows you to help configure and
manage the lifecycle of the container.
You can start the service,
you can stop it,
you can choose the configuration,
you can have a look at
the log files and so on.
We'll have a quick screenshot
of this tool later on.
Also very important is to ensure
constant availability of the service
is if it should fail for any reason,
the watchdog process will
immediately be notified and
restart the container so that you
have basically almost no downtime,
only the 20 seconds it takes
to restart the container.
In terms of security integration,
we have made sure that we have
integration with Open Directory,
which is our single sign-on server.
And what you can do is you can
use the Open Directory user and
password sets and authenticate,
for example, web clients with it.
You can make sure that you basically
have only one security realm.
You don't have any additional setup.
You just use the Open Directory to
verify Unix password,
username, and password combinations.
Similar with Apache, Apache comes with
Mac OS and server as well.
And we have made sure that you can serve,
for example, all of the static content
of your site off of Apache,
which is really fast.
And Apache can just be configured
to modify and to forward all
of the requests that are,
that reference to dynamic content
back to our Tomcat engine,
which is embedded in our JBoss container.
MySQL.
You've probably seen that MySQL 4
is shipping on Mac OS and server.
So we have completed the configuration
and it's enabled by default.
You don't have to look up port number,
anything again.
It just works and you can
just access the database.
And finally, we have LDAP support for the
LDAP server that's integrated.
And it's extremely easy to set it up.
It's just a few matters of
properties to set it up.
And again,
you can browse the whole hierarchy of
the LDAP server and make use of the
information which is stored inside.
Okay, using JBoss.
Now that you know where to get it,
we have two ways of
starting the container.
Again,
the server admin plug-in is one way.
The other way, which is probably more
geared towards the developer,
is starting it from the command
line from the base directory,
which is library JBoss 3.2.
And you find the whole,
you can see it in the screenshots below,
you can see the whole
traditional structure of the
JBoss installation down there.
You can see in the left column,
you can see two directories,
3.2 and applications.
You'll find our management application
and our deployment configuration
in the applications directory.
Good.
So far for the file system layout.
Now let's have a look at
the server admin plugin.
On the left-hand side,
we have all of the traditional services,
DNS, FTP, firewall, Apache, and so on.
Our application server support is
just one more bullet item on the left.
Again, you can see the logs.
You can restart the service and so on.
I should say that all of the tools
that I explained here in a very
brief way will be explained in much
more detail later in session 612,
Deploying Enterprise Applications.
So the deployment tool,
what's the purpose?
I've heard people complain
that they don't really like
migrating or writing XML files
with just the DDD as a guideline.
So what we do is we
facilitate this approach.
We take away all of the pain of
launching your XML editors and
configuring JBoss using raw XML,
using a text editor.
The tool actually--
The J2EE application
does most of the setup,
most of the relationships between
the different files automatically.
The main purpose of this tool is,
however, to migrate binary components
from other application servers.
For example, from WebLogic or whatever
server you happen to run on.
You can just pull out the application.
The deployment tool helps you to
figure out what of the JBoss specific
elements in the configuration is
missing and helps you figure out what
resources are present in your container.
For example, databases, JCA connectors,
and so on.
And it will help you match the
requested resources that you find
in the deployment descriptors with
the actual container resources.
And we have provided much guideline.
Much support to help you figure out what
you need to configure for this container.
We have a verification engine that
marks all of the entity beans that
need to be configured or where
configuration is missing as red.
I will show you that in
a screenshot later on.
We have assisted CMP mapping,
which means the deployment
tool asks the container which
databases we have configured,
what other table names,
what other column names.
In the CMP mapping section of the tool,
you will just match field
names with drop down menus,
for example,
for the columns and for the tables.
It's very easy.
You don't have to invest much
time into reading the XML files,
reading the DDDs,
reading the documentation.
We have two types of configuration again.
A full configuration which enables
you to really leverage the full
capabilities of the container.
Mainly for performance tuning,
for very advanced setup,
or you can use the express configuration,
which drills down to a very limited
set of the configuration files,
of the configuration options,
and only those that really
need to be present in order to
ensure a successful deployment.
Lastly, of course,
you want to deploy at last.
Either you write the file into
the directory that we recommend,
or somewhere else,
or you can remote deploy the
enterprise archive as well.
Here comes a screenshot.
You can see it's a WebObjects based
application using direct to web.
And on the left hand side,
on the left hand side,
you see the pet store,
the pet store ear application,
which has an embedded set of EJB modules.
And you also see that some of the beans,
for example,
the sign on session bean there comes
up in a different color than the rest.
This means that the sign on
session bean is fully configured.
You don't have to click on it again.
And you have to focus on the
other ones that are marked as red.
And as soon as you update, for example,
when you click on one bean,
you see a pop up on the right hand side.
This is the configuration
that you need to fill out.
Once everything is complete,
it will show up as blue or as fully
configured on the left hand side as well.
Again, more details in session 612.
So the next tool is the
container management tool.
This is very important because for one
thing you need to know what's going
on when you're deploying a full site.
You have to know which application
is causing the most traffic,
which is the most
important one to optimize.
This is where the JSR77
monitoring support comes in.
JSR77 monitoring support or JSR77
as a specification is geared towards
introspection of a running EJB container.
You can find out, for example,
which kinds of applications
are deployed on the server.
You find out which resources
are deployed and which services.
On top of that,
JSR77 also requires that the container
keeps statistics about resource usages,
for example, the transaction manager
or the connection pools,
for example,
to find out the waiting time,
the average waiting time on a connection,
which is very important data
to do fine tuning later on.
And our container support container
management tool does support just that.
The second feature of the container
tool is container configuration.
Again,
all of the configuration is thought
as XML files and they are very hard
to read and very hard to understand.
So, we have created a graphical interface
that helps you select the most vital
options and concentrate on those.
In your configuration settings,
you can also apply all of the knowledge
you have gained during the monitoring
and then find you in the container
based on the knowledge you gained for
the traffic for your particular site.
Yeah, again,
more on In Session 612 on this tool.
But let me just quickly
explain how it looks like.
On the left-hand side,
you see three different tabs,
Applications, Resources, and Services.
For the Resources,
currently I have selected
the Transaction Manager.
And on the right-hand side,
you can see the statistics that the
Transaction Manager keeps for us.
In this case,
we have three different counts.
We have committed transaction,
we have the number of
rollback transaction,
and we have the number of
currently active transactions.
All of this is important data
to figure out how much resource
usage your container actually has.
Okay, this concludes the introduction
of the J2EE components.
This is mostly the stuff that we
have in Mac OS and server and that
we will leverage with WebObjects.
I will switch on to the next topic,
J2EE development with WebObjects
tools and Mac OS and server tools.
And for that, I would like to welcome
Han-Ming Ong on stage.
Thank you, Stefan.
Hi there.
My name is Han-Ming Ong.
I'm an engineer in the
J2EE WebObjects team.
I know you have been listening
for more than 25 minutes.
Bear with me for 15 more
and we'll show you a demo.
Okay, development tools.
Here is a summary of four development
tools that we have in order to help
you with your J2EE development.
I'll just go through quickly
each one of them and then jump
into more details about each.
Xcode.
That's the new Apple's IDE that
we have and now it's integrated
with the J2EE project types,
project templates and follow visits.
Two, Xcode and N integration.
N is the Java based build tool and
Xtoglet is the metadata processor that
generates files and codes for you.
I'll talk about this tool in
details in subsequent slides.
EO Modeler, that's the,
for the WebObjects crowd,
that's the EO modeling tool that we have.
And EO Bean Assistant,
we ship EO Bean Assistant,
which is the entity bean
generator in WebObjects 5.2,
but now it's been upgraded to
support EJB 2.0 specification.
Stefan will delve into the
details for these two tools.
Okay, and integration with Xcode.
Now, Xcode is the IDE that
Apple encourages you to use to
develop projects on Mac OS X.
And Ant is the de facto tool that,
you know, Java developers use to develop
Java projects on every other platforms.
Let's have a show of hands, actually.
How many of you have used Ant before?
It's a pretty overwhelming response.
So both Apple and you have emphasized
that these two tools should work
together so that you have a relevant
Development Platform and
Mac OS X for J2EE Tools.
So, let me say a caveat first.
The developer CD that you have,
you need to go into the sneak peeks
folder and install the N integration
tools in order to play with it.
And we would love that you play
with it so that you can give us
feedback and we can improve further.
Okay, let's dive in now and
talk about the details.
We are using AND 153
to build J2EE projects.
We hope to pick up the latest
version whenever they have it.
Current version is 153.
And two,
if you have done J2EE development before,
especially EJB, you know that you have
to deal with three,
four, five Java files that are
essentially boilerplate files.
And all the deployment descriptors
as well that Stefan alluded to.
We are leveraging another great open
source project known as XStocklet
to help you manage this complexity.
And I'll talk more about that as well.
Three,
in order to jumpstart the J2EE project,
we have to build J2EE.
To help start your
J2EE development on Mac OS X,
Xcode now comes with three
project templates to help
you build your Web module,
your EJB module,
and your enterprise application.
It also comes with two file
wizards to help you build
your EJBs and your servlets.
And during your development process,
it's really essential for you to have
a quick test deploy of your module into
JBoss so that you can test drive it.
So what happens,
we optimize it so that the build product
of your wall or your jar or your year
goes into the auto deploy directory
that Stefan mentioned earlier on.
And say your computer is
RAM challenged and your JBoss
is installed on another machine,
you can always use the FTP task.
Although this is encouraged only during
development because of the security
risks associated with plain FTP.
A couple more quick details
to complete the picture.
In the developer preview CD,
when you install it,
the files that support your N and
XTocklet integration work will be
installed in developer Java J2EE.
Now you want to know this because you
might need to surgically upgrade N or
XTocklet for speed or feature reason.
We try to ship with examples to
demonstrate the power of XTocklet and N.
Actually, we with one now,
but we will provide more as we go along.
Okay, you guys know about ANN,
so we have more things to talk about,
so I'll skip this slide and talk
about the more interesting things.
So I'm going to talk about the
end scripts that comes with the
project templates that we have.
First off, you'll see build.xml
and build.properties.
These are pretty much the two
files that you see in every other
Java project on other platform.
WebBuild.xml is a build script that's
provided by us to build your web module.
And EJBBuild.xml helps
to build your EJB module.
And an enterprise application,
which is the third kind
of project template,
would contain copies of one of
each because they usually contain
a web module and an EJB module.
It has to be emphasized that these
four build scripts are customizable,
just like any good end build scripts.
Customizable to your heart's content.
If you don't like a certain style,
you're encouraged to change it.
Last show of hands,
who have used xDoclet before?
It's pretty cool.
So essentially it is a, to simplify it,
it is a code generation tool and it
helps you generate extra Java files,
those pesky deployment descriptors
based on extra information that you
put into your original Java file.
In the correct Java J2EE lingo,
this extra information
are known as metadata.
And to specify those metadata,
you use Java.txt.
They are defined by XTocklet.
To generate the files and
the deployment descriptors,
you have to run it through two end tasks,
WebDocklet and EJBDocklet.
Now, as the names imply,
the WebDocklet builds your web module,
the EJBDocklet builds your EJB module.
The web doclet that we have in your
developer preview CD is a special
build compiled from the CVS source,
open source, because when the developer
CD went to print,
they have not released the beta build.
So it's 1.2 beta 3.
I'm mentioning this because
in case you need to upgrade,
you know where to download
and where to put them.
I mentioned it before.
And if you like X-Tocklet,
be sure to thank them for
their effort as well when you
visit the website and stuff.
Here's a little diagram
that summarizes the process.
On your left is the original Java file.
Here we choose EJB because
it's pretty illustrative.
And we would put Javadoc
tags as defined by X-Doclet.
I wouldn't go into the details
of each tag because Stefan and,
you know,
we'll go into them and you can find
them on the X-Doclet website as well.
So, suffice to say,
if you put in proper and correct
X-Doclet tags and run that
through the EJB Doclet task,
in this case the EJB Doclet task,
it will spit out for you, in this case,
five files.
All right?
These five files are boilerplate files
that you probably shouldn't worry
about in your normal development.
And if you want to,
we will generate deployment
descriptors as well,
those XML files.
The good thing about XTocklet
is if you don't like using them,
you don't have to use them.
Say you are a code masochist and
you decided that juggling five
Java files that are essentially
boilerplates is a healthy obsession,
ignore the XTocklet test and
go straight to the Ant test.
We bid you good luck, though.
I'm going to switch gears a little bit
and talk about the project templates.
We assume that you have
experience with Xcode,
while it's a reincarnation
of Project Builder,
so you know, and using Ant.
And we assume that you would
like to learn about XDoclet.
So I'm going to enumerate the major steps
so that you have a clear overall idea.
First off,
what you do is you go to Xcode and
instantiate the WebModule project.
It will give you three build scripts,
build.xml, build.properties,
and webbuild.xml.
You can always customize them
then or you can always come
back later to customize them.
And then you create your
sublets using the file wizard.
It will ask you a few questions
and then generate the the file
for you based on your answers.
As opposed to EJBs,
actually sometimes you create
your serverlets from scratch,
no big deal.
If you do that, make sure you observe
the naming convention.
Because the task that we have in the
build scripts recognizes these files
that end with this four kind of ending.
servlet.java, tag.java, action.java,
filter.java.
It takes me a long time
to remember these four.
So,
and then you add your static resources.
For WebModule,
usually you have quite a lot
because you have your JSPs,
you have your images,
you have your tech libraries,
you have your third-party jars.
So if you need that,
make sure you put it into
the static resources.
The demo we're going to
show will illustrate this.
And then you hit the
compile button on Xcode.
What happens is it will choose
the default target in end,
which we chose to be installed
because it's the shortest path
to test deploy your WAR file.
It will not only run through
that web doclet task,
generate a deployment descriptor,
compile your classes, create a WAR,
and drop it into the deploy,
auto deploy directory
that Stefan mentioned.
If JBoss were running,
it gets picked up almost immediately,
and you can test drive it by firing your
web browser because it is a web module.
Let's move on to EJB module.
Again, you create it from Xcode,
instantiate it,
and then for your build scripts,
instead of having WebBuild,
you have your EJB build.
Now you go and create your EJBs,
but we really encourage you to try to
use the wizards because it's slightly
more complicated to create from scratch.
So the wizards that we have
will help you create stateless,
stateful session beans.
entity beans, the simple BMP and CMP,
and eventually your message-driven bean.
The version that you get on a developer
CD might not be that powerful,
but give us feedback.
And eventually we'll have
message-driven VIN as well.
If you do create the EJBs from scratch,
make sure you observe the
naming convention as well.
We have to end with EJB.java, bin.java,
or mdb.java in order for
the EJB doclet task to work.
And then you add your static resources.
For EJB module,
usually you don't have a lot,
but you might want to add your
customized deployment descriptor,
your EJB jar or your JBoss.xml.
Similar story,
you hit the Compile button,
you will auto deploy it to JBoss.
As opposed to WebModule,
you wouldn't have a web
interface to test it.
So usually what you do is you
create a test web interface
beforehand to test drive it.
Or you can look at the JBoss log.
This is the last slide for me.
So for enterprise application,
this is usually the most
complicated to explain,
but because we have built our foundation
knowledge on the previous two slides,
so we can apply that knowledge to here.
And that J2EE enterprise application
will usually contain a copy of
one or more copies of WebModule,
one or more copies of EJB modules,
with steady resources,
your third-party jobs, etc.
And eventually the end product is
something conventionally known as a year.
Our enterprise application
template will start with one
EJB module and one web module.
So we will contain a
webbuild.xml and an ejbbuild.xml.
Next, you go through the similar steps
of creating servlets and EJBs
like what I mentioned earlier on.
And then you add your static
resources to the organized
subfolders that you'll see later.
Static resources for WebModule go
to the subfolder for WebModule.
and similarly for the EJB module.
EJB enterprise application
does have its own special
requirement for static resources,
the third party jars that
your modules are dependent on,
for example, log4j, JUnit, blah, blah,
blah.
You have to make sure as
per the J2EE specification,
you have to make sure that the
manifest files of those modules
that you're going to make use of,
the English came out bad,
but the modules that is going to
be dependent on a third party jars,
make sure you amend the manifest
files for those to reflect the
dependency or else it won't work.
And then eventually you compile
and you auto deploy and because
it usually has a web module,
fire up your favorite browser,
which is Safari now, and test drive it.
Let's go on to a demo.
Demo 2 machine.
So, Stefan is going to do
the screen manipulation.
I'm just going to do the narration.
So before this project here,
I went through the steps of jump-starting
it by following a how-to file.
I added a how-to file to this project,
which is known as XPetStore,
which is a rehash of Sun's
iconic PetStore project.
So JBoss now should be
started in the background,
in terminal.
And this is the project that you
find actually in your developer CD.
Stefan has selected the four build
scripts that I've mentioned all the time.
And now I'm just gonna
take a look at the sources,
the organization in the source folder.
So you can see EJV module
and your Web module.
Let's drill down to EJV module because
it's slightly more interesting.
You'll see an xDoclet merge there.
There's a concept in
xDoclet for merging points.
What you have here essentially is
a list of deployment descriptor
XML elements that can be merged
into the eventual XML file.
More details on the xDoclet website.
The
ExpatStore source directory here is
organized in the same hierarchy as your
Java package hierarchy.
Let's drill down all the way to domain,
catalog, EJP.
I just want you to take a look at
this file called category Java.
Thanks to Mr.
Wei Shipanu.
This is the expat store that he built.
So you can see a lot
of xDoclet text there.
The name, the type, CMP.
Stefan will talk about
more as well in his demo.
And I just want you to remember
this file and see what are the
files that are generated later on.
Okay?
Let's close this.
Let's look at the organization
of the static resources as well.
So again, it's organized in a way that
reflects where you should put stuff.
Let's look at WebModule because
it's usually more interesting.
Here you see a lot of JSPs.
and the majors and what have you.
There's usually in your webint,
you will find your tech libraries
that you're dependent on as well.
All right, let's close this.
And I want you to take a look
at the X-Doclet generated
deployment descriptors.
Let's look at the one for EJB module.
Now they are in red because we
have not built the tool yet.
That's why they are in red.
When we build it, they will become black
and you can look at them.
So let's build it now.
He will build up the browser window.
Now the font is kind of small,
I apologize for that because Xcode
being in beta or developer preview
doesn't allow us to change it.
But I'll try to narrate off.
So let's build it.
and Stefan brought up the terminal
because he wanted to illustrate the,
J2EE is the first machine to
deploy the J2EE application to
the WebObjects application server.
It is in this order because
usually your WebModule is
dependent on your EJB module.
Oops, I have to speak faster.
So, J2EE picks it up and
now it's deploying it.
Let's ignore this view now.
Has it been deployed?
Okay.
And I want to take a look
at the generated files.
So,
let's hide everything and bring up Xcode.
Go to window.
Okay.
So, let's talk,
look at the files that are
generated for EJB module.
Right now you have a C extra
directory called xDocklet generated.
Drill down to it.
And remember the category EJB file?
Now it has generated
two interfaces for you.
Category Local, Category Local Home.
If you don't use xDocklet,
you have to create, maintain,
and resync this file.
Let's close this.
I won't go into details of that.
And now I want to take a look
at the deployment descriptor
that's generated by Xtalklib.
So this is a perfectly normal,
well-formed, validable XML file,
as opposed to you firing a baby
edit and leaving out the slash,
for example.
Let's search for category.
So all this information
that you see here,
they are derived from the original
Java file that I showed you earlier on.
The name, the EJB class.
In fact, EJB class,
you don't even have to put it
in because it's a Java class.
It draws introspection
and gets it from there.
- Okay, I'm gonna close this.
And I'm going to show you the
first page of the expat store
because these are all fresh JSPs.
I like WebObjects, you know,
when you first hit it,
it takes time to compile,
so I'm not gonna run
through all the demo.
This works!
Okay, it's working.
And, um,
For some of you who have
done J2EE development,
this is the quintessential demo
that they have to demonstrate.
Okay, that just about ends my
part of the presentation.
Thank you for your kind attention.
Stefan will continue the rest.
Thank you.
So we continue explaining the
WebObjects tools that can help
you getting your J2EE applications
written and tested and deployed.
So the next tool that we
have is not really geared
for the WebObjects developer,
not really perceived as a J2EE tool.
It's EOModeler.
Well, EOModeler,
for the people who don't know WebObjects,
is a database modeling tool.
It helps you build a representation
which is semantically richer
than the database contents.
What you can do is you can reverse
engineer existing databases.
You can forward engineer a database
and then finally have the tool
create the schema in the database.
But its main purpose is to map between
the world of database contents,
which means tables and columns.
To the world of Java,
meaning classes and fields.
Finally, when you're in development mode,
you can also browse the database,
connect to the database,
and look what's going on.
So this tool builds the foundation for
our entity bean generation that we have,
which we implement in another
tool called EO Bean Assistant.
EO Bean Assistant is
not really a new tool.
If you have WebObjects 5.2,
you have it installed already,
but in 5.2, it only was geared towards
CMP 1.1 or EJB 1.1 development.
Now that we ship with a
J2EE 1.3 compatible container,
which means EJB 2.0 as a
technology is included,
we can do far more than we used to do.
And also, thanks to our end templates,
we can make it very easy for
you to have maintainability.
code generated by this
tool automatically.
So as I said,
we have very good integration with AND.
Basically the tool will just write
out based on an EL model and some
more information that you can
enter in a graphical environment.
It will create the
source files on the fly,
write them into the AND template
directory that you selected.
It has X-Docklet integration,
which means we don't create
EJB XML files anymore.
All of them are X-Docklet
generated so that it is very easy
for you to maintain your code.
And if you do changes,
if you just keep up synchronizing
changes in the X code section,
it is really easy.
We create support for
deployment descriptors,
which are the regular deployment
descriptors mandated by Sun,
but also for the J-Boss
deployment descriptors.
The output is an EJB jar or an enterprise
module that is portable to any container.
Specifically, it can be deployed out
of the box onto J-Boss.
We have also a command line tool,
a command line back end system
for this tool that you can
use in an automated build.
And we're going to show you
this tool in an upcoming demo.
What we suggest for J2EE development
on our platform is that you use
EO-Modeler to model the database,
to model your persistence layer.
EO-Modeler, as I said,
is a very good tool that also has a
lot of performance or can give both
the EOF stack as our entity generation
tool a lot of hints on performance.
For example,
read-only caching attributes and so on.
. Once you have the model generated,
you should go ahead and use
the EO Bean Assistant to
create the entity beans.
Drop them right there
into our project support,
build them with Xcode.
You can enrich the generated entity
beans with session bean facades,
for example,
with message driven beans and so on.
Our template support will help you.
Finally,
what's missing in most cases is a web
tier and you can either use WebObjects
to access the entity bean layer or
you can use JSPs and so of that.
And then finally, of course,
JBoss is the container
to deploy on later.
But as I said, everything is generated
totally compatible with
every other J2E container.
So you can just port your
applications to almost any container.
Okay, now we come to the demo.
What we're going to show is basically
the recipe that I showed in the
previous slide applied to a project.
In our case,
I have already created a Neo model,
and you can see that
we have three entities.
We have the entity complex types,
which is our main demo element,
which has a very complicated mapping of
the database section into the Java world.
So we map.
You can see we have many parameters here,
many attributes.
And we map to basically all of
the primitive Java types that you
can see in the uppermost section.
In the lower section,
you can see the relationships that our
entity has with the two other entities.
So we have a to-one relationship
with the one entity,
and we have a to-many
relationship with the many entity.
This will show you how not only the
CMP attributes are mapped very easily,
but also the CMR attributes,
even for a more complex case,
are mapped and generated
automatically with CMP2O.
Let's move on and launch
the BeanBuilder UI.
And we load the model and go on.
We can select mapping only
partial subset of the attributes
or of the entities in your model.
And we go on and I'm just
going to show you one screen.
We have prepared a mapping already.
The mappings are stored in XML files
and can be easily manipulated.
We can also use the CMP to
map the relationship mapping.
So what you can see here is
you can edit the package name,
you can edit the class names of all
of the files that will be generated.
You can either generate
CMP beans or BMP beans.
And you have a variety of
options to generate the two
different types of beans.
Again,
we recommend using CMP2O now because
with the relationship mapping,
it is so easy.
Good.
Let's quit here.
And we're just going to show
you the command line version.
It will run through the
EO model and create the three
files that we are looking for.
But first of all, obviously we have to
create a new project.
We create an EJB module to show you how
the two technologies are integrated.
Now that we have a new module,
unfortunately we have to get Xcode
up and running with the new font.
And then we can switch to
the terminal and show you the
command line version of our tool.
So the only thing that we're
going to do is we launch the tool,
give it our EJB specification
as an XML file.
You see the file EOB.xml.
and we're just going to discard a
bunch of not really useful messages.
As you can see,
the tool is implemented as
a WebObjects application.
So we leverage the component
layer to make sure that
[Transcript missing]
, and we have a mapping of one
entity in the database to one
file on disk to one entity.
Okay, let's have a look how this looks
like in the n-template with Xcode.
We have put all of the beans into the
demo package and our main important
bean is the complex types bean.
So again,
xStocklit makes it very easy for
you to write maintainable code
and to avoid having to specify
duplicate information in two places.
In this case,
we would have to get information
of the class names of the local
and remote interfaces and so
on in the actual Java files,
but also in the deployment descriptors.
And also in the JBoss-specific
container descriptors,
which is very annoying.
So you can see the
EGB tags for xStocklit.
Those are the tags that will,
or this is the information that
will end up in the EGB jar XML.
And when we scroll down a little,
You can see that we also have JBoss
specific attributes that will end
up in the JBoss specific files.
, and I'm going to show you how
to deploy the application server.
Even if you don't want to deploy
on the application server,
you can still leverage
all of the attributes.
You can just insert the attributes
that you need for WebLogic or whatever
Ong, and the X-Docked engine is not ready
yet for the advanced set up but
it will get there before we ship.
Let's go down a little and have a look
at the attribute to -- or database
As you can see here,
we automatically include every single
attribute you found in the entity as a
getter and setter method in the bean.
This is a spec requirement you can
get around except for the case that
you have a read-only attribute.
So we generate all of the necessary
information to generate the deployment
descriptors and also the performance
synth for the JBoss container.
Then let's go down a little since
CMP attributes are really boring.
We go down and have a
look at the CMR fields.
The CMR fields are the way how
relationships are mapped in CMP2L.
Instead of having an integer,
for example, or a long foreign key that
points to the real entity,
they are mapped again
as local interfaces.
And you can see that the
relationship setup is a little bit
more advanced and has quite some
more code necessary for CMR fields,
both in terms of reading and writing.
So this code that we generate
automatically is really a big help.
Okay, so what we do now,
I think we are through with it.
Let's just compile it.
Let's bring the terminal window
up and see what JBoss does.
J2EE, and then we compile it and you
see it is ready for deployment.
You don't have to
change anything anymore.
Especially you don't have to use
the deployment tool to manually
go over and figure everything out.
And this is because the EO model,
which is the back end store,
has enough information for us to
generate all of the required information.
And again, it picks it up automatically.
It generates the tables as necessary.
You can also tune it to have
it generate indices and so on.
Okay, let's move on.
The demo is ended.
We go to the next slide.
And we go on to the section that
most of the WebObjects folks
are probably most anxious to
Our integration story is this.
Our server adapter,
which is not really new,
we have been shipping
it since WebObjects 5.1,
is the central point of the
J2EE integration strategy.
the solid adapter is basically a
framework that you pull in into any
web objects application and It enables
service support it has custom build
scripts that create all of the hierarchy
which is necessary for a almost dot
war deployment and It pulls everything
it basically put everything together
for a j2e container to deploy it
Now the one thing that was missing in
the previous releases was the ability
to have a pure jar representation of the
web objects application and That we have
added in the form of job on those a job
on it is more or less a framework inside
a jar many many people have been asking
that for a long time and Now we have it
and this enables us to vend web objects
application as the traditional dot
war file or as a enterprise application
We have enhanced the NSLog interface
with an NSLogger implementation that is
capable of using an existing NSLogger
or NSLog4j logger as the backend.
This is especially important for
the JBoss container which uses Log4j
as its native logging mechanism.
Log4j is integrated with the
container and you can use the
administration tool to look it up.
The other important gap that we
bridge now with the upcoming 5.2.2
release is our configuration story
for properties and for EO models.
The problem is that we have a lot
of data that is not yet available.
We have a lot of data
that is not yet available.
In the past,
we used to have the properties
based on the system properties,
which is especially bad if you have
multiple applications launching at the
same time with conflicting settings.
This has been remedied with our
JNDI property configuration.
Similarly,
we used to have a problem where if
you have an EO model and you have
a database configuration set up,
especially for the .var deployment,
this is extremely annoying.
This has been remedied with our
JNDI property configuration.
Similarly,
we used to have a problem where if
you have an EO model and you have
a database configuration set up,
especially for the .var deployment,
this is extremely annoying.
Because you would have to unpack
the jar and then launch an editor
and type in the real database
for the deployment scenario.
And that's extremely annoying.
So this is a thing of the past as well.
I also want to highlight the
additional features that you get by
deploying a traditional WebObjects
application on a J2EE container.
And for one thing,
the background is you can
use all of the capabilities,
all of the features of the
traditional server specification,
which means you can use filters.
Filters are traditionally
used for authentication or
compression or whatever else.
You can use EJBs that you maybe
get from third-party vendors
that you develop in-house.
You can use JDBC.
You can use JSTA for
enterprise information system.
You can use JMS, for example,
for asynchronous messaging or to
access message queues and so on.
And also, the transaction manager is
always available in a servlet,
which means you can have multiple
resources in the same transaction.
And either roll back all of the changes
automatically or commit them all at once.
The other set of options
that are very appealing,
I think, is integration of security,
which means you just write
your application without
a login scheme required,
and you can make use of
the container security.
And again, we have included modules so
that you can access and verify
user password combinations
with our Open Directory server.
. It is very easy to have one,
if you have only one middleware,
one infrastructure,
you have one place where logging occurs.
You have only one place or one container,
one process to watch.
So it is basically a -- it
makes maintenance and running
a J2EE store way easier.
So those are the additional
, and the latest developments in
WebObjects application on J2EE.
These are some of the advantages
you get out of the box when
you deploy your WebObjects
application on a traditional J2EE
So this is an example of using a
J2EE resource in WebObjects application.
I'm not going to talk about this
in much more detail because this
is traditional J2EE programming.
It's nothing special for WebObjects.
You can use it out of the box.
There is no call overhead,
so there is no extra network access
because everything is in process.
So the way to get access to an EGB or you
can get access to the transaction manager
or getting access to JCA or whatever
is you create a new initial context.
You look up a certain string where
you know the resource is located.
You narrow it down to the right
type and then you're done.
You can use it.
Let's have a look at the
JNDI property configuration
that I talked about previously.
So the servlet adapter creates a template
for a Web.XML descriptor for the servlet.
And there,
We use the environment entry XML sections
to specify our property definitions.
So all of the documented
properties that exist in the
WebObjects application container
are documented there and have
their standard value there,
which means that it's very easy,
for example, using our deployment tool or
using the deployment tool of,
let's say, WebLogic to change the
configuration right there.
And again,
since JNDI is capable of having
a thread-local definition
of the whole environment,
there is no problem if you
have multiple applications,
multiple WebObjects applications starting
up and using different properties.
The deployment is easy because you
can see in the description elements,
you have a description of
what this property does,
you have the name, you have the value,
and with the type information,
deployers can easily figure out
what the correct values are and
what the possible values are.
Very similarly for mapping data sources
and for making sure that your EO model
or that EOF can find data sources
that you configured in your EO model,
we have a similar setup.
So in addition to the environment
entry that we have to define
to do the actual mapping,
we have a mapping of
a resource reference.
This is an indication to the
container that we are referencing a
database in our server environment.
And we are declaring this
reference and we are saying,
okay, we will be using this under the
name JDBC default data source.
In the second layer,
we have an environment entry
which the EUF stack will use
to actually do the mapping.
You can see we have an
element called movieDB.
And this movieDB will be, we assume,
in the connection
URL section of the EU model.
And this key makes sure that we can map
the moviesDB to the environment entry.
You can see JDBC default data source,
the lowest entry.
And we can map the movieDB to the
environment entry down there and map it
to the definition in the uppermost entry.
So we have basically a two-step mapping
mechanism for accessing data sources.
And this is the final step basically
in making sure that WebObjects
application can be fully configured
using a J2EE deployment tool.
Okay, and that was it.
So what was important?
For one thing,
I think one of the very important part
is that J2EE can very much benefit
existing WebObjects application.
And that J2EE really is
not your enemy anymore.
It's your friend.
Because it cannot deploy on, for example,
.NET systems.
But you can deploy on J2EE systems.
And also,
I think WebObjects can benefit J2EE.
You have seen that our tool set
can greatly help you develop
your J2EE applications on
WebObjects on Mac OS X server.
And then finally,
I think with all the integration work of
the many pieces that I introduced today,
we have a very good story and that
I think Mac OS X server is the best place
to develop and deploy JBoss applications.
Thank you very much.
That was the presentation.
I'm just going to go over the
roadmaps and the end titles.
Very important is session 612,
enterprise application deployment,
where we go over all of the tools
in much more detail and explain
many more things that we just
haven't had the time for today.
WebObjects reusable
components for the Web tier,
very important.
WebObjects UF advanced topics.
WebObjects creating web services,
very important if you need to
interoperate with .NET systems,
for example.
And then who to contact,
Andreas Wencke of course,
Bob Fraser and Catherine Wenck
are our main address,
our main contact persons
for the WebObjects product.
And we finally have
Apple Care Enterprise Services if you
need more help getting applications out.
And these are for the DVD library.
Don't type them up.
They are all in the URL section that we
will publish on the website and the DVD.
Important, I think, is the JBoss website.
There's actually two addresses
for the JBoss website.
One is JBoss.org,
which is the commercial arm, basically,
of the JBoss project.
And the other one is more
geared towards developers.
It's on the SourceForge site.
Tomcat and X-Docklet
have their own websites.
X-Docklet website is really
very important because there are
so many X-Docklet tags and you
just can't remember all of them.